# GoogleKeepServer
Backend for Google Keep Clone.

### Project structure:
- It follows MVC pattern.
  1. M - Model == The schema of the data that we are dealing with.
    - It is mostly dealt with <code>**mongoose schema.**</code>
    - After creating the schema create a <code>**mongoose model**</code> with it.
    - Then also don't forget to export the model so that we can use it whereever we need.
  2. V - View == The Routes/Views/Paths/ etc are part of the V in MVC.
    - The Routes are specific to a model.(i.e., if we are dealing with user model then we might be using get user, create user, delete user, get user by id, update user etc.).
    - The Routes are generally written using the <code>**Express library**</code>
    - We use Router of express library to route each endpoint to a method defined in a controller.
  3. C - Controller == The methods/logic/functions etc are part of the C in MVC.
    - The controller is nothing but a file which has the actual function implemented which was declared in Route as name.
    ```json
    Ex: Router.get('/', getAllTasks);
     - Here Router is being the Router from express library.
     - The get is the express's http method.
     - The '/' is the path or endpoint of the requested method.
     - The getAllTasks is the function definition which is fully implemented in controller file.
    ```
    - Now the controller logic is mostly written in <code>**Javascript**</code> with a touch of <code>**mongoose methods**</code> if there are any database calls(like create,read,del,update).
  - All these 3 combined acts as an API or Backend in some sense.

### Libraries & tech used:
1. Nodemon = Well for easing up the development in nodejs this is a must.
2. Express = To Ease up the Nodejs develpment we shall use Express lib.
3. Mongoose = It is also called as an ODM(Object Data Mapper). And it's purpose is similar to what express is to nodejs.
4. Dotenv = Well this is something useful and good to know. As this thing keeps all of our secret parameters out of git and out of sight of others except the deployment server.
5. cors  = Cross origin resource sharing is nothing but our backend service being introverted towards any external requests made to it.
    - Any api call made from frontend is rejected by the backend service until we specify it using cors package in express.
6. bcrypt = This is a hashing library, tool that can hash our passwords before saving them in to the database.
7. cookie-parser = This is used to deal with cookies.
8. JWT = Json Web Token is nothing but a unique id generated by JWT library which is used to identify a user's state.
   - Generally we use sign() method to create a token.
   - And we use verify() method to compare whether the token is valid or not.

